# AADL-HSM

This repository contains the Isabelle sources for a formal semantics of AADL (as implemented by HAMR).

A PDF of these theories generated from the Isabelle documentation framework can be found at
http://people.cs.ksu.edu/~hatcliff/Papers/AADL-HSM.pdf

# Contents #

A detailed table of contents for these artifacts can be found in the PDF file above.  Alternatively,
below is a brief overview of the contents.

## Summary of File Organization ##

### Static Model Information ###

* [Model.thy](Model.thy) - provides data structures, helper functions, and well-formedness properties for AADL-HSM representation 
of AADL instance models.  An AADL instance model is the primary artifact used by AADL analysis, verification, 
and code generation tools.

* [ModelExamples.thy](ModelExamples.thy) - illustrates the definitions in Model.thy with some hand-written examples.

* [TempControlModel.thy](TempControlModel.thy) - is a AADL-HSM representation of a simple Temperature Control system modeled in AADL.  This file is auto-generated by the HAMR AADL model-driven development tool.   HAMR can generate such files for any AADL model that it can generate code for.

### Runtime State Information ###

* [VarState.thy](VarState.thy) - data structures, helper functions, and well-formedness properties for the AADL-HSM representation of thread local variable values.

* [Queue.thy](Queue.thy) - data structures, helper functions, and well-formedness properties for the AADL-HSM representation of AADL-compliant queues used to support inter-thread port-based communication.  The queues are AADL-compliant in the sense that they implement AADL's options for handling queue overflows.

* [PortState.thy](PortState.thy) - data structures, helper functions, and well-formedness properties for the AADL-HSM representation of thread port states.  This theory uses the queue representation above to define a semantics for storage of values flowing in and out of thread ports.

* [ThreadState.thy](ThreadState.thy) - data structures, helper functions, and well-formedness properties for the AADL-HSM representation of thread execution states.  A thread state includes representations for its local variables (using VarState.thy), the state of each of its ports (using PortState.thy), and other information regarding it dispatch and scheduling status.

* [DispatchLogic.thy](DispatchLogic.thy) - provides definitions specifying AADL's rules/policies for thread dispatching.

* [SystemState.thy](SystemState.thy) - data structures, helper functions, and well-formedness properties for the AADL-HSM representation of system execution states.   This includes information regarding the state of each thread (using ThreadState.thy) 

* [RuntimeExamples.thy](RuntimeExamples.thy) - provides simple examples of different types of runtime state to exercise definitions in the theories above.

### Thread Application Logic ###

* [App.thy](App.thy) - provides a representation of AADL thread application logic.  In particular, it provides a basis for representing AADL GUMBO contract language contracts that constrain and summarize the behavior of thread application code.  

* [Behavior.thy](Behavior.thy) - lifts the semantics of contracts in App.thy to thread state structures to support system-level reasoning.

### System Reasoning ###

* [Properties.thy](Properties.thy) - provides definitions for a deductive reasoning framework for AADL system behaviors.

